Thomas P, Theocharous G, Ghavamzadeh M. High Confidence Policy Improvement[J]. 2015:2380-2388.
Theocharous G, Thomas P S, Ghavamzadeh M. Personalized ad recommendation systems for life-time value optimization with guarantees[C]// International Conference on Artificial Intelligence. AAAI Press, 2015:1806-1812.


Personalizing  web  services  such  as  the  delivery  of  news  articles  or  advertisements
is an effective way to increase users’ satisfaction with a website or to increase the
yield of a marketing campaign.  


A policy can recommend content considered to be the
best for each particular user based on a profile of that user’s interests and preferences
inferred from their history of online activity. 


A  reinforcement  learning
system can improve a recommendation policy by making adjustments in response to
user feedback.  One way to obtain user feedback is by means of website satisfaction
surveys, but for acquiring feedback in real time it is common to monitor user clicks
as indicators of interest in a link.


 method long used in marketing called
A/B testing
is a simple type of reinforce-
ment learning used to decide which of two versions, A or B, of a website users prefer.

Adding  context  consisting  of  features  describing
individual users and the content to be delivered allows personalizing service.  

Policies derived from the contextual bandit formulation
are greedy in the sense that they do not take long-term effects of actions into account.




Theocharous,  Thomas,  and  Ghavamzadeh  (2015)  argued  that  better  results  are
possible by formulating personalized recommendation as a Markov decision problem
(MDP) with the objective of maximizing the total number of clicks users make over
repeated visits to a website.  

As an example of how a marketing strategy might take advantage of long-term user
interaction, Theocharous et al. contrasted a greedy policy with a longer-term policy
for displaying ads for buying a product, say a car.  The ad displayed by the greedy
policy might offer a discount if the user buys the car immediately.  A user either takes
the offer or leaves the website, and if they ever return to the site, they would likely
see the same offer.


 A longer-term policy:
. It might start by describing the
availability of favorable financing terms, then praise an excellent service department,
and then, on the next visit, offer the final discount.This type of policy can result
in more clicks by a user over repeated visits to the site, and if the policy is suitably
designed, more eventual sales.


The other algorithm, a reinforcement learning algo-
rithm based on an MDP formulation, aimed at improving the number of clicks users
made over multiple visits to a website.They called this latter algorithm
life-time value(LTV) optimization.  B


Data sets from the banking industry were used for training and testing these algo-
rithms. The data sets consisted of many complete trajectories of customer interaction
with a bank’s website that showed each customer one out of a collection of possible
offers.  If a customer clicked, the reward was 1, and otherwise it was 0.  One data set
contained  approximately  200,000  interactions  from  a  month  of  a  bank’s  campaign
that randomly offered one of 7 offers.  
ntained 4,000,000 interactions involving 12 possible offers



 All interactions
included  customer  features  such  as  the  time  since  the  customer’s  last  visit  to  the
website,  the number of their visits so far,  the last time the customer clicked,  geo-
graphic  location,  one  of  a  collection  of  interests,  and  features  giving  demographic
information.

Greedy optimization was based on a mapping estimating the probability of a click
as  a  function  of  user  features.   The  mapping  was  learned  via  supervised  learning
from one of the data sets by means of a random forest (RF) algorithm (Breiman,



E-greedy policy that selected with probability 1-

the offer predicted by the RF
to have the highest probability of producing a click, and otherwise selected from the
other offers uniformly at random.


LTV optimization used a batch-mode reinforcement learning algorithm called
fitted
Q iteration
(FQI). : Q-learning. 


final policy for testing the LTV approach was the

-greedy policy based on the best
policy  produced  by  FQI  with  the  initial  action-value  function  set  to  the  mapping
produced by the RF for the greedy optimization approach


